
This data comes from the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones 
Data Set, generated by  Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, 
Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto at the Smartlab - Non Linear Complex 
Systems Laboratory. 

The "run_analysis.R" script tries to get a tidy data set by:

1. Reading the data from files: supposing those files are in the 
working directory, contained in a folder named "UCI HAR Dataset", 
as provided in the course. 

2. Merging the training and the test sets: In order to merge the 
two sets, activity and subject data are previously added to data,
then one dataset is created. 

3. Selecting only variables on the mean and standard deviation of 
the given measurements: searching for patterns in variable names 
(mean() and std()) and then selecting the  variables in the 
dataset and the corresponding names

4. Giving descriptive activity names: Replacing the code by the 
activity names  (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, 
SITTING, STANDING, LAYING), given in the appropriate file. 

5. Increasing readability of variable names: replacing 
abbreviations with the full text, correcting mistakes in some
names and eliminating unwanted punctuation symbols. 

6. Creating a final dataset that calculates the mean of selected
variables for each subject and each activity. 

7. Writing the final dataset in a txt file named "tidy_data.txt" in the
current working directory. 


TO RUN THE CODE: Set the appropriate working directory and run 
source("run_analysis.R"). 



NOTE: For additional information on Human Activity Recognition Using 
Smartphones Dataset: www.smartlab.ws

NOTE: 
License:
Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the 
following publication [1] 

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. 
Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass 
Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient 
Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit 
can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. 
Any commercial use is prohibited.

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.